>>Have you ever heard
of Indigo children?
>>No.
I probably heard of
it, and it's probably--
I'd relate it to
some hippie thing.
>>A hippie thing.
>> Indigo children.
It sounds hippie.
>>Well, Ruby, you ever
heard of Indigo children?
>>I've heard of Indigo Girls.
>>Indigo Girls, yes.
>>Pretty good band.
>>What's an in-, indi-
>>Indigo.
>>Indigo child?
>>Yeah.
>>I have no idea.
You?
>>I've never heard of it.
>>I have no idea
what Indigo child is.
>>If I see like more of an
awareness among younger people
depending on where they're
from, where they come from,
their background mainly.
>>My daughter,
who's eight, told me
she waited a long time to
come to Earth to have me
as a parent.
Like she had a mission.
>>What's her mission?
Did she say?
>>She hasn't said
yet, but she seems
to be really wise, and
really all knowing, old soul.
Maybe she's an Indigo child.
[SONG PLAYING]
>>To me, the
definition of an Indigo
is someone who's highly
sensitive, with a warrior
personality.
A warrior personality
means that someone
who's here to lead
and to take charge.
>>For a long time now, since
the '70s '80s, clairvoyants
and psychics have been able to
see the color indigo in the bio
fields, the auric fields
of mainly children.
Why children?
Because it's the
vitality of children,
it's their life
force that renders
these colors more visible.
>>I've always seen
those souls who
are identified as Indigos
as having this indigo
color in their beingness.
As I see the soul,
they look like
a bright-- a brilliant
star in a midnight sky.
And around the clarity of
that white light that they are
is this circle of indigo light.
>>Well, it's a
beautiful mythology.
It's a way to put in words
something that is happening.
And indigo is a beautiful color.
But it is just a color.
What really means is that
human start shifting.
>>These are children with an
extraordinarily different sense
of things, a larger
sense of things.
Indigo children,
to me, are children
who have an expanded awareness,
dramatically expand awareness,
of everything around them,
things seen and unseen.
>>They have a very
deep spiritual base.
Not religious base, spiritual.
If you talk to them, I don't
care how they have been raised,
they have a sense of knowing
that there is a greater power,
there is more than what we see.
>>They are also great healers.
They have the purist
heart that you could find.
I've dealt with a lot
of them, and that's
what I found them to be.
>>For a while I was
kind of confused
because I would feel things,
and I would think things
that I thought no
one else thought.
And so I didn't always
express myself the way
I do now, and talk about
things like this openly.
But I'm definitely accepting and
thankful that I am what I am.
>>Well certainly
Indigos know that they
are different from
most other people.
There are traits that
most, if not all,
Indigos have in common.
>>These kids were coming
in, or young adults, already
questioning what they were
told by their schools,
or the principal, or
their pediatricians,
or even sometimes psychiatrists.
>>They are seen
to be children who
are born with
special perception,
or special wisdom, or
special compassion.
For me, all children
are Indigo children.
>>I wouldn't just want to
be-- like certain people
be singled out-- called an
Indigo because everybody is.
There's just some people have
realized it and some haven't.
Indigo's a name for people
who have realized it, really,
and do special things that
people think are amazing
but everybody can do it if they
just believe that they can.
>>When I was four I had
many visions of meeting God,
meeting new people.
And my inspiration is God.
And the first time that I
drew I thought that everything
could do the same thing.
But as I grew a
little older, I knew
that God gave me this give
to share with others too.
So when I started drawing,
God gave me more ideas
that I don't even know.
I don't even know
what the meaning is.
Like the pyramids, I really
don't even know the meaning.
Some paintings are even
more harder and harder
to think of and
know that meaning.
So when I started getting
a little older I started
knowing that this is
God, this is totally God.
He's helping me with my art,
he's helping with my poetry,
my life to live,
other people's life.
He's taking care of me like
I were a little butterfly
and he's just a little
human just covering, just
making me safe.
He just-- he's-- I like him.
He's everything that
I have, and when
I think of that I feel
like a really good feeling.
He's in every poem that I write,
in every painting that I paint.
Each time when I paint
the eyes I liked,
I like the eyes
because I like to paint
their whole life in their eyes.
Sometimes do it with people
even inside their eyes,
little people.
You don't think.
For example, you
dream of something
and you just see stuff
inside your dream,
and you just see it.
It's like, it's exactly like
writing it and seeing it
at the same time.
I know with God,
I really know it.
And sometimes I just feel like
God gave me this gift to me,
why not others?
Because, sometimes I'm
a little frustrated
because I don't get
that right, right thing,
like the right word
or the right position.
So I'm frustrated, but when
I just start talking to God
I just go away and I
start talking to him.
When I start talking to him he
just calms me down right away.
He just says that
everything's going to be OK.
And then when I just
know that feeling
I just know that it's real.
Everything is happening,
and other people
could have that feeling too.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I started having this feeling
of writing something down
about the painting
that I was sketching.
So I was thinking of something,
but I didn't need to think,
I was just writing effortlessly.
When I started writing
and I showed it to my mom,
she's just, why?
Who is this?
What is these words coming from?
And I said, it's from God.
Then I just showed-- I used
to go to school at that time--
so I showed it to my art class.
It's like show and tell.
And all the students is
like this, oh my gosh,
did you write that?
And I thought that everybody
could write the same thing
as I. But when I started
getting a little older
I understood that
God gave me this gift
to share with others, to
teach others what he gave me.
"The day I was
born, I met myself.
The day I was born, I
met my young mother.
The day I was born, I met
Christ sleeping in my cradle."
>>It's not the Indigo children,
it's not the Crystal children,
or the Rainbow children,
it's the children of today.
So when you start
to categorize we
are again putting
labels on something.
>>We're a society
that loves labels,
and it wants to
compartmentalize.
And humans kind of
do it by nature.
We like to put things
into their place,
and have everything have
its little perfect place
where it's supposed to be.
But in the process of
saying that there's
a separate phenomenon
of Indigos, Indigo
children, or Crystal children,
or whatever it happens to be,
we forget that every human being
that's brought on this planet
has a gift.
They're all gifted,
we're all gifted.
We all have something
special about us.
>>I would try not to use
any terminology whatsoever.
I would try very, very much
not to do any labeling.
But since this is a world
that uses verbal communication
I would try to use as
few words as possible.
I would use the one
word, developed.
They have a development that
is different than other people,
other individuals.
>>Say you're an Indigo, and
somebody comes up to you
and asks you a question--
Say it's your mom or dad,
they come up to you, ask you
something, or your friends
or anything.
They come up and ask you
something about their life
that you don't know about, and
you can tell them what it was
and how it happened, and
everything like that.
And then, they just
look at you and say,
your freaky, or
something like that.
>>I honor that there are
children who are very special.
However, I have not met one
yet that is not or does not
have the capability of
becoming very special.
>>I'd like to believe that our
whole society, our whole world,
is evolving together, some may
be a little faster than others,
but hopefully everyone
is evolving together
as human beings.
>>I think the dangers of
labeling Indigo children as one
thing or another is that we'll
start believing the labels,
and we'll sidestep the
authentic experience that's
right in front of us, or we will
adjust our experience of what's
actually going on
order to fit it
into our preconceived notion
of what the label suggests
it ought to be.
>>Putting a label, Indigo,
on somebody kind of
is almost, or was for me, almost
intimidating to live up to.
Because you hear all this stuff
like, wow, so if I'm Indigo
does that mean I can never
wake up and have a bad morning?
Does that mean I
can never, you know,
never get into a bad mood?
I think the label might be
a little limiting sometimes.
But once I realized,
wait a second,
we're just kids who want to
make the world a better place.
>>One day we will do
away with the labels
and we will just
call them children.
We will call them humans.
But for now, I think it is
important to have labels
because if we don't label
them other people will.
They're already being labeled.
They're being labeled
dyslexic, autistic, disruptive,
troublesome, ADHD,
ADD, problem children.
And I think that
if we don't create
a different kind
of label for them
then mainstream society will.
>>When Joshua was about
two, or about three,
we just arrived in
New Zealand, and we
were on a bit of a
road trip around,
looking around the country.
He and I were driving
around one day.
I think we were looking for
a beach to go skip stones on
or something.
We were just quiet.
I was sort of drifting along not
really saying anything, and all
of a sudden, just out of
the blue, Joshua said,
hey dad, who was Michelangelo?
And I just kind of thought
about it for a second.
I said, well, he was
an artist, buddy.
And he thought about
it for a minute,
and he said, oh yeah,
oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
He painted the sky, didn't he?
And I thought about
it for a second.
I said, well, oh yeah, he did.
He painted the sky in
big churches and things.
And he said-- I said, why?
Why?
Did you do you know
him or something?
And he said, yeah,
yeah, I knew him.
He was a good man.
And that, of course, sparked
my interest even more.
And I said, well, tell
me a little bit more
about that Joshua.
What do you mean?
And he goes, dad, that
was a long, long time ago.
And that was pretty much the
end of that conversation.
>>There's always been some
quote "Indigo" children
on the planet, always,
since the beginning of time.
It's just that
what's happening now
is that there's masses
of children being
born who are, in
fact, enlightened.
>>The time the Indigos were
incarnate on the planet
in the numbers they
are now was probably
in the 12th, 13th
centuries, and they
were known at that time as
the Gnostics, as the Cathars,
as the Bogomils, the
heterodox Christians.
In other words, the heretics.
>>Some early examples
are Joan of Arc and also
Bernadette Soubirous, also
known as Saint Bernadette.
These we're
strong-willed, very tuned
in young people who
change the world.
>>Here you have,
on the one hand,
these kids that are
incredibly gifted.
Some were remembering
their lives
before they were even born,
before they were even in utero.
There were so many
stories I was hearing.
One child who actually told
her mommy that before she
was born, before she was
even in her mommy's tummy,
she used to watch her mommy.
And she actually
described several things
that her mother had done
so that her mother knew
that she was telling
the truth because how
could the child know?
And she was waiting for
the moment to come in.
And she said, I chose you.
I chose to come into your tummy.
>>My kids and I were making
valentines for their classroom,
and Maielaya was sitting
on my lap and my two oldest
children were at the
kitchen table with us.
And Maielaya was just
looking up into my eyes.
And then, all of a sudden,
she noticed her reflection.
And she says, wow mama, I
can see myself in your eyes.
And I said, yes honey, I
I said, isn't that beautiful?
We can see ourselves
in each other.
And she smiled.
She said, yes, just like
I was grandma Marlene.
And I then said, well, tell
me a little bit about that.
And she said, well,
my body got very sick,
I was very, very sick.
And she said, and the
doctors tried to help me
but my body was way too sick
so, she said, my body died.
And she said, and
then my body got
colder, and colder, and colder.
And when she said this
there was such an intensity
to which she said it.
And her body, my mother's body,
was put on ice for three days.
So then Maielaya says,
and then the two men
came to the house,
which two men did,
and she said, and
they put my body
into a box, which
they indeed did,
and then they took my body to
a place that had a big oven.
And she said, and
my body was burnt.
And she said, and my spirit
went up with the angels.
She said, but I wasn't
in angel, I just
was with the angels watching
you guys, watching all of you,
she said.
And then I was a baby,
and now I'm Maielaya.
She seems to be overcome by
the clarity of her experience.
She then says, I'm scared.
And I just know, intuitively,
that I need to sing this song,
although it's not something
I commonly sing to my kids.
I started singing, "He's Got
the Whole World in His Hands."
And Angelina also joined me.
And within a few
words of the song
Maielaya then grabs
my cheeks, fiercely,
and looks me right in the eyes
and says, that was the song.
And when she said that I had
instant memory of the song
that my mother
actually wrote into her
will to be sung on the
boat when we were pouring
her ashes into the
Atlantic Ocean.
She wanted all her
family members,
all ages, all different
belief systems,
to all have absolute knowing,
as she did, that regardless
of the outcome of her physical
healing, whether she had it
or not, that her soul was
infinitely in God's hands,
and she trusted in
that impeccably.
And when I sang
that song to her she
smiled because that truly gave
her comfort in that moment.
That was the song
that was her keynote
to remind her of her soul
being in God's hands.
>>"He's got you
Maielaya in his hands,
he's got you Maielaya
in his hands,
he got the whole
world in his hands"
>>There are some Indigos who
are streaming into the planet
to bring the sword of
will, the sword of power,
to cut through the old paradigm
and slice through the illusion.
There are some who are bringing
in the gentle compassion.
in the new language of light
and sound.
So that's where
the music comes in,
that's where the heart
communications come in.
And if we can quiet
our minds enough
we find that clear
communication can come through
on a heart level.
So myself and many
others, I feel,
are here to bring
the new language,
and we just need the
new ears to hear.
[SINGING]
I came from kind of a
dysfunctional family.
My parents got divorced
when I was five years old.
So right away, it
was clear to me
that the outside
world was not a place
I could find stability in
or comfort in even at times.
So what that forced me to do,
in a way, was go within myself
and find that within myself,
and that was my personal path.
We just need to be able to hold
a space when these kids are
telling us, oh, I'm
seeing angels at night,
or I'm seeing this,
or this is happening.
And my parents told me,
oh, that's just a dream,
your imagination's running wild.
And all those things
would be batted down
instead of being supported.
So in a way, I shut
down, in a way,
from being able to express that.
[SINGING]
In fact I just like to ask,
has everyone here heard
of Indigo children, and have
an idea in your own minds
of what that means?
>>Yeah.
I've read a little bit about it.
From what I've observed
from my own little
one is being very sensitive,
more than the normal.
Children are sensitive, but
there's an extra edge to it.
The memory of past lives
bleeds through more readily.
And she doesn't always
know what to do with it,
but it's just below the surface.
A knowingness, as all children
do, of what's authentic
and what's not.
But they seem to be more
impatient with that which
is not authentic, which
sometimes leads them
into clashes.
And helping a master
awaken type of role
rather than trying to fill
in the brain education.
>>We have to have a
receptivity for it first.
We have to have a
receiver like a radio,
like a crystal receiver,
inside of ourselves.
And that comes
with doing the work
and clearing out the darkness
and the old patterns of doubt,
and fear, and all
of the old patterns
that we've been installed with.
Once we get our receiver
uncovered though,
we can tune that dial in
to the indigo vibration.
And it's a very
incredible process
to see this happening
all over the planet
in these little pockets,
but more and more it's
becoming a web.
[SINGING]
Why are Indigos here?
Indigos are here to
bridge heaven and earth.
>>Indigo children have access
to human experience at a larger
level, at a greater depth
than most people do.
They access the data
in a different way,
the incoming data of
life, and they access data
that some people don't
have access to all.
And so sometimes
the Indigo children
are mistaken or
misunderstood to be
children with attention
deficit disorder,
or children with
some sort of deficit
of some kind or another.
And in fact, it isn't
that they have a deficit
but they have a supplement.
They have more not less.
>>If we have our Indigo children
mask their spiritual gifts
with substances like
Ritalin, or fast food that's
being sold on school
campuses for lunch,
then we are literally
shackling these children,
we're putting them into
chemical straitjackets.
>>When you're trying to put
them in a curriculum in a school
system where they have to learn
a little bit about everything,
kind of in a spiral,
as they're growing,
that doesn't work
for them because they
want to take a
subject, grab onto it,
sink their teeth in and go until
they've gotten to a point where
they're finished
with that subject.
Then they come back
and grab another one.
>>A lot of these
kids really need
to be in private
school or home tutored.
So unfortunately, when you're
in groups of 20, 30, 40 kids
you have to behave.
You have to be able to sit there
for an hour or 45 minutes, 55
minutes.
And for many of them that's
just asking too much.
>>In my life, I've
been diagnosed
bipolar, manic depressive,
schizophrenic, psychotic,
but I have one doctor who, after
I had my quote "breakdown,"
tried to jump off some buildings
and whatnot, he said to me,
Miss Kirkland, they're going
to probably tell you never
to be an actress
again, that you're
too emotional, you're too
this, you're too that.
He said, don't listen to them.
He said, in Asia,
in my country, you
would be considered an artist.
But in your country
you're labeled.
Because you're too creative,
you're too artistic,
you're considered crazy.
>>These kids are being,
if you want to say it,
tripped into this hyperactivity.
It's because they're
getting junk food,
they're getting-- often,
they're precipitated by having
mercury in their
environment, mercury in fish,
mercury from co-gen plants.
Some of the older ones have
had it filled into their teeth.
And then also, there is the
fact that the younger ones are
getting it actually
through vaccinations.
A lot of these young children
will be quite normal, well,
what we call normal,
until they're
tripped into having
vaccinations,
repeated vaccinations
throughout childhood,
with thimerosol, which is a
mercury-based preservative.
>>I can't imagine any kind
of artificial substance,
or pharmaceutical,
or drug that you
could put into the body of a
child that could substitute
for, or provide you with more
profound or deeper impact
than love, caring,
compassion, and acceptance.
>>A lot of Indigos
are labeled ADHD,
which the medical
community will tell
you stands for Attention Deficit
with Hyperactivity Disorder.
But I think that ADHD
stands for attention
dialed into a higher dimension.
>>What we are going
to talk about today
is an osteopathic
approach to children
with ADD, ADHD, and autism.
We're really going to talk about
individual care a little bit,
and about the full
spectrum of options.
We have things all
the way from dealing
with just drugging them and
using Ritalin, or Adderall,
or any of the other
medications that are out there.
We have the choices of
doing absolutely nothing
and using alternative
medicine, whether it
happens to be herbs
or homeopathy.
You have the full
spectrum, and even
osteopathic
manipulative medicine,
because it definitely makes
a difference in these kids.
So do we say that we have to be
on one spectrum or the other,
or do we have the
benefit of being
able to use a full spectrum of
things that are available to us
as what's appropriate for
that individual child.
Being different's
not a bad thing.
It's just different.
And the key thing
is finding people
who understand you, who respect
you, and allow you to be you,
to be the individual
that you are.
That's the most important thing.
And recognizing
you may not always
be the popular kid, or the one
that everybody gets along with,
and that's OK.
What is normal?
That is one of those words
where we use it so often.
What is normal?
And that's different from
every physician you talk to,
every parent you talk to,
every individual you talk to.
So we have a hard
time when we say,
well, this kid's not normal.
Well, what is your
classification of normal,
right?
So as we start to approach these
children, the things that I'm
finding, universally,
are that they're often
very, very bright.
Have you guys seen
the same thing?
>> Absolutely.
>>Right.
Some of the smartest
kids you've ever seen.
Anyone who's gifted and
talented, and has a passion
for the world and a passion
for making everything a better
place, what an
amazing, amazing thing.
That we want to actually
continue to help
promote these kids
in feeling that it's
OK to feel maybe that
they are special.
I think everybody's special.
And when you recognize that
whatever their special thing
is, to help them further it
so that they have a chance
to blossom and become the
most amazing individual, most
amazing human being
that they can be that
benefits the entire
world in a positive way.
Then fine, use the label Indigo.
Makes no difference to me.
But recognize that
every child needs
to have that love
and that compassion,
that patience to
help them really
expand to be the most incredible
human being they can be.
[SINGING]
>>Since 1992, according
to data taken from the CDC
from the school districts around
the country sending in data,
the incidence of
autism has risen 800%.
And every year it's raising
about an average of 20%.
And that's in relation
to just over-- all
other developmental disabilities
are still at about 1% to 3%.
Autism keeps increasing,
and it's probably not
going to get any less.
So there's a reason
they're coming here.
>>What we find in
some of the younger,
highly sensitive
children is a difference
in communication abilities.
Many of them seem to
communicate mind-to-mind,
or what science
calls telepathically,
with their parents.
And it doesn't
seem like it causes
a problem until later on in
life when the parent feels
embarrassed that in
social situations
the child's not speaking
verbally, or in school,
of course.
So the diagnosis that these
young, highly sensitive
children are receiving is
autism or, in some cases,
Asperger's syndrome.
And the autistic
spectrum is very broad.
It goes all the way from a child
who doesn't enunciate clearly
all the way to a
child who seems to be
in their own little world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Hey.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>My one son, Dar,
who I've been working
with the last couple
of years, and who's
emerging very beautifully out
of autism and beginning to talk.
And it's really exciting.
I'm so, so proud of him.
I'm not going to talk about
him anymore, I'll cry.
Tears of joy.
But he has a lot of
sounds he likes to make.
So he might go
ohhmm, ohhmm, right.
And so then I'll go
oh-umm, is that for mum?
And I'll go ohhmm.
And I'll go mmum, mmumm, mmum.
And then the next thing you
know it builds from um to mom
to you're singing a song.
[SINGING]
[GURGLING SOUND]
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
>>I like this guy.
[APPLAUSE]
>>We start to communicate
in a silent way.
Underneath this game
you start to connect.
It's no different than
if I connect with you,
and we do any kind of conversing
or any kind of being together.
Like maybe driving
in a car and we
both see the same beautiful
thing, and we're connected.
It's the same.
I'm creating an opportunity
to connect with my child.
And then he, in turn,
does that for me.
>>With autistic kids I know
that there's definitely
have been anecdotal comments
about these kids having
maybe more of a telepathic
capability, that's
why they're not as expressive.
And I can't say that I have
personally experienced it.
I know that there are many
people who have told me
about their experiences
personally with these kids,
but I can't speak
on it personally.
But again, we talk about
that extrasensory perception,
that we still don't use
a significant portion
of our brains.
And you have to wonder
whether something like that
isn't possible.
>>I'm going to make a
little confession here.
OK.
At this time I was married,
and I was a little fed
up with my husband, I must say.
I was standing there
doing the dishes,
and Dar was the only one
not in school at the time.
And he's over to the
side doing his own thing.
He does a lot of this, you know,
you're kind of going like that,
and looking into
the world within.
And I'm doing the
dishes, and I'm
imagining having an
affair on my husband
because I met this guy that
I thought was kind of cute.
And I'm like
thinking the thought,
maybe I'll just have an affair.
And as loud as can be,
inside my head, I hear no.
But the weird part was
it wasn't like when
you think the thought,
no, to yourself
or, no, I'm not
going to do that.
It wasn't like that at all.
Not only was it a voice,
but it was a voice
that I recognized as
Dar's, which is believable
because I had heard
him speak occasionally.
So every once in a while, Dar
would say something, really,
out of his lips.
Every once in a while
he'd go, I'll take that,
or I'll do that.
So I knew his voice when
he would speak normally,
and then he'd revert to
these um sounds and stuff.
And so I heard this no in my
head, and I look over at him.
And he's looking at me and he
goes, nuh, nuh, nuh, nuh, nuh.
And he'd never done that.
I thought, oh my gosh,
this kids' reading my mind.
He's listening to me think.
>>If we see Indigo children or
the way they express themselves
as a nuisance, or a
bother, or something that's
difficult to deal
with, then we're
going to treat it one way.
If we see it as
an enormous gift,
an opportunity to gain
insight into life itself
through these
children as a channel
to access the information
that we can't access
by our own devices,
we will treat
it an entirely different way.
>>The children look up to
you, and you're definitely
their role model.
And just let the kid be a kid.
I mean, if it gets
out of control, yeah,
but just be patient and
let them be themselves.
>>Many Indigos are
in trouble right now.
Because of their
intuitive ability,
that they're picking up
things that other people
don't pick up on.
If this is not
acknowledged and accepted
they begin to self-medicate.
Drugs, alcohol are ways that
they use to self-medicate.
So the parent must learn how to
communicate, and also make sure
that they have taken
enough training to know
how to communicate well.
>>It's really OK as a parent
to not know the answer.
It's really OK to say,
hey, I really love my kids,
but I wanted to have
a different life.
Or it's really OK to say,
my child's pretty strange
and I don't know
what to do with that.
All of that's OK.
But there has to be
something afterwards
if you want to be
nurturing to your child.
And I think then the next
step is to say, I don't know
but I'm going to find out.
>>If there was one gift that a
parent could give a child that
would have lasting value and
lifelong effect and impact,
I think it would be
the parent's presence.
And by that I don't mean
the number of hours,
or the number of days each
week that you're there
with your child, but
that when you are there
with your child, if it's only
for 10 or 15 or 20 minutes
you are completely, totally,
and utterly present and open
to the authentic
experience of that moment.
>>If you don't start
with you, you're
just going to pass this
problem down to your child.
So you've got to find a way
to get rid of all that out you
so that when you look at
your child you see gorgeous.
And there's lots
of ways to do that.
You can do it through
books, and meditation.
But basically, you have
to say, every time I
feel like my child is a
problem, I have to go to me
and say, why do I see that
as a problem, and fix that.
>>That the soul of this
child is wise and mature,
sometimes even beyond yours.
At the same time, this
mature and wise soul,
and very capable soul, is trying
to incarnate into this child
body-mind.
So don't forget that the
child has to be raised,
and the great soul
has to be respected.
[SINGING]
>>When I had Alexa
and Natalee, and they
were extremely different than
other kids, I as a parent
listened to my gut.
And so I channeled their
talent from a very young age
and got them performing
and doing what they love.
Their music has always
been their life.
They could handle
a million things.
They could get
really good grades,
and they could
perform all the time,
and write music
and do instruments,
and be on dance teams.
>>Wake up.
What are you doing?
What are you living
for if you're not
following your dreams?
You have people that love
to paint but they decide
to be a car wash person,
you know what I mean?
I think it's really about if
you are true to yourself then
you can be true other
people, and you can really
live your gift.
And that way there's
more harmony on earth
and everything's more in sync.
>>Really, music is
what I want to do.
But it's like what
my sister said,
I'm living two different lives.
I kind of hide myself
when I'm here in Utah
because what can I do?
I play music at home
and I do that stuff.
But when I go to school
it's just kind of,
OK, back to the other
half of Natalee.
[SINGING SCALES]
>>Nae, nae, nae.
You'll almost this A to
E. Nae, nae, nae, nae.
Because you go, nae, nae, naa.
It pulls out and
gets to yelling.
And that's what your brain wants
to do but don't let it do that.
So nae, nae, nae.
So it still sounds like nae,
but you're thinking kind of E
because that keeps
it small enough
that it keeps you going
there and you get that split
thing that you're feeling.
Nae, nae.
>>My definition is
someone who comes
to the world with a
knowing, with a gift,
and they have a purpose to
help the world in any way.
And mine and Alexa's is music.
[SINGING]
>>Well, I know it's music.
Alexa and I, we put our
feelings into music,
and we relate to music so much.
It's what we do 24/7.
We know that-- it's
just something we know.
>>Other than singing,
Natalee and I
do dancing, acting, gymnastics.
We used to play
soccer, and you know,
we've done almost
everything you can think of.
I think it's good for us
because it's let us branch out,
not just always do singing.
And that way we
learned that's why
we love singing is because
we've done all the things,
and we've tried everything,
pretty much, and singing's
our favorite thing.
So I think it's good.
[SINGING]
>>Comparing to my sister,
I'm not as serious.
She puts all her time
and effort into music,
but I'm more separated.
I love music, and that's what
I do, but I like to be happy.
And she's just more
serious, and the older soul.
>>My advice to people who are
kind of like Natalee and I
would be to not
deny who you are,
to not try to pretend that
you're regular, you know,
because you're not.
And every day you're going
to remind yourself that
by doing the same
not fitting in stuff.
The reason why I
wrote this song,
"Live Like It's Your Last Day,"
is to-- I sing it every day.
It's like to kind of
keep reminding myself
that if today was
my last day would
I want to spend
it being negative,
and being down,
and hating myself?
No.
You want to be fun
and upbeat, and do
things you'd never
do because you never
know when it's going
to be your last day.
"--my last breath.
And I love as if my heart won't
break, and dance as though I'm
by myself." [SLAPPING HER THIGH]
Got to do the beat.
"Today I don't care
what you think,
I am going to live for me.
And that won't ever change.
Today could be my last day."
>>I mean, children are getting
bombarded with just stuff
that they don't even need
to see, or hear, or feel.
I think things are so upside
down, at least in this country,
where we're at, with
what we're teaching them.
You're going to go
into a public school
and teach somebody lies about a
fictional character in history,
and you're not
going to teach them
how to deal with crisis
in their life, mentally,
or teach them how
to eat correctly,
organically, or teach
them how to farm,
or teach them about
meditation and slowing down
their heart rate in a struggle.
What's up with school?
>>Unfortunately our country does
not put in the amount of money
into our school
systems that needs
to be there to really,
financially support
all the educators and
the school systems,
and all these phenomenal
people trying their best
working in this system
that's just failing.
>>My book "Fear Now" is now
the rage in high schools.
So that's certainly some mark.
It tickles their consciousness.
>>What schools need to do
is not concern themselves so
much with memorization
of data but with pulling
from the inside of the
child the wisdom that
resides there quite naturally.
>>According to the
definition, and if we
look at the definition
of education coming
from the Greek
definition of edukas,
it is the pulling forward
of wisdom from within.
>>No Child Left Behind
is really scary to me
because what it's doing is
instead of teaching them
how to think it's teaching
them what to think.
And we need to get back
to what true teaching is.
>>We haven't
evolved as a country
in what we're teaching them.
We haven't adapted
to where they're at.
And I think they're
just way ahead.
They're needing more.
And it's here
already, we have it.
The people here.
It needs to be
allowed to be taught.
>>With all of your might, man,
throw up your fists there,
run out on the front line,
fight for the children.
No better time than now
to build this energy.
Expand the family through
synergy chemistry.
With all of your might, man,
through up your fists there,
run out on the front line,
fight for the children.
No better time than now
to build this energy.
Expand the family through
synergy chemistry.
>>The educational
paradigm is shifting,
and that there needs
to be something
for the children of today
so that they can feel
nurtured in a safe and
sacred environment for them
to be fully and
completely who they are.
We've developed a prototype for
a new type of schooling system
that's really an entertainment
and an educational learning
center within the community.
And this is a place that is
completely child-directed.
We have all ages together.
And basically, it's
really a iteration
of the one-room schoolhouse in
a hip, jazzed up environment,
in a manner that allows
us to keep authenticity
to our vision.
>>True teaching is
helping to bring out
the gifts that each of
these children have,
and also having them recognize
that there are gifts and not
all gifts are the same.
>>HSP stands for a Heightened
Sensory Perception.
And if we could increase
our senses, our perceiving
of our senses, we can make
decisions that we're proud of,
we can feel more confidence.
And of course, that
leads to a much healthier
and more peaceful outlook.
Dr. Lee really wanted
to prove his theory
that with some training all
children can develop their HSP
potential.
And so, with an initial
group of children,
with a little bit
of training, it
was shown that prior
to the training
they didn't have any
extraordinary abilities.
They hadn't used them yet.
But with a little
bit of training
they developed some
really remarkable results.
Some of the HSP
testing and training
that the students got a
chance to participate with
included being
blindfolded and learning
to recognize colors, and
shapes, and even words.
Other students had
the opportunity
to bend spoons and actually have
spoons attach to their bodies
just by using their brain power.
Initially, these students
couldn't do these tasks.
But with the training, in
which they had so much fun,
there was a lot of
laughter and joy,
the students developed a
sense of I can do it spirit.
And sure enough, at
the end, more than 25%
percent of students successfully
could be blindfolded
and to make out images
and pictures and colors.
33% of students, or
more, experienced success
using the spoons.
>>Later, another training
was done in Ashland, Oregon,
in the United
States, which helped
to confirm those
original findings.
And with a group of
44 American children,
again, with no special
initial abilities or ideas,
they were able to do some
very remarkable things using
their brain and
using their choice.
>>Step one of saving the world
begins in our daily lives.
First thing to do is be happy.
It's one of the most
important things.
It's scientifically proven to
be healthy, and it's contagious.
[APPLAUSE]
So if you're happy, and
you're in a public area, and--
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
You get my meaning, don't you?
I would consider myself
to be a peacemaker.
I'd say that I've got a
lot of ideas in my head
about peace that
I think, sometimes
I feel like they're
almost common sense to me,
but might not be to
the rest of the world.
As far as our Western
civilization goes,
yeah, we have been
thinking about ourselves
and what we're doing right now.
I know that the Native American
tribes, way back when, were
into this action affects
the next seven generations,
and we need to watch
what would happen
if we do carry out this action.
So they had it right.
We just need to figure out what
they were talking about now.
If I get to say one thing
to the leaders of the world
it would be that
we're all working
towards one goal,
which is peace.
There's no people
who are working
against peace in the
world, I believe.
Stand up for what
you believe in.
>>Yes. [APPLAUSE]
>>We all have-- we
all know what we
need to do to save
the world, really.
We all have our own
special calling.
We know what the
politicians need to do.
And unfortunately,
sometimes the politicians
don't seem to know what
we want them to do.
That's because we're not
getting it out there.
And I thought, wow,
you know, I've always
wanted to do something
to save the world
but I couldn't think
of anything to do up
until that point, really.
I couldn't think,
so what could I
do beside the idea to
write the pamphlet, which
had led to the idea
that, wait a second,
maybe other people
have that problem.
They want to do
something good, they
can't figure out what to do.
In my booklet I suggested
trying to pick up
one piece of trash a day.
And if you think
about that, there's
plenty of trash in the
world, but there's also
300-something million
people in the US alone.
And imagine if we all picked
up one piece of trash.
You think, one bag, what
difference does it make.
300 million bags makes
a big difference.
An Indigo child is really
hard to define because there's
no really definite definition.
But in a phrase,
I think it would
be somebody who has
ideas about how they
can make the world
a better place.
If they were to say, oh,
you're naive, you're a child,
I'd say exactly.
I'm a child, which
is why I'm not
burdened with the sense of
oh well, the world's screwed.
No, the world's not screwed.
We can turn it around.
We just have to
get to work on it.
If each single person
in the whole world
thinks, oh, one person can't
change it, nothing happens.
If each person thinks, well,
if one person can't change
the world, but one person
can do a little bit.
Each person, that's a
little bit, and it adds up,
and we've got the golden idea.
[MUSIC - "BLESSED ARE THE
PEACEMAKERS"]
>>We're looking at
this piece of rock
here, with what they
called a prophecy rock.
I guess it was put here
by one of our clan uncles
from way back.
I don't know exactly how
old this thing is here,
but it tells us the
migration, how we came up
from direction south, I call it.
This is Masauwu.
This is the person,
or the spirit
being that we made the covenant
to to live the way he lived
his life and to take
care of the earth.
It probably ended here
but then, of course,
he has to have to his travel
feather for a good journey.
So that's why he's got
the real long hand here.
The shield here is
indicating that we
should be cautious of this here.
This is the cross.
They already knew that
somewhere along the line
this was going to be
a part of our life.
This is a cross, and that
represents the other religion.
So, that's the Hopi religion.
We are not to deviate from
that, but as we go up,
this is the new
life on this earth.
And it's all squared off.
It was a good life.
But here, some people
chose to go in this line,
and this is represented
by these people here.
There's four of them, the magic
number for the Hopi people.
This was a semi-good life here.
It's still in line with
a straight line here.
OK.
These are the people
that have supposedly
taken up with that region.
So they're up here.
And those of us that
maintained-- the ones that
are maintaining our
cultural activities,
this is their
representatives here,
the horn of plenty, and
then the forever life.
Here's another figure here,
and he's going to go continue.
But for these people
here, after this good life
here-- I don't know how far
along we are, but I think
we're getting pretty
close to the end here--
they'll go for a
little ways and then
you'll start to be uncertain.
They'll start to waiver.
They'll realize that maybe
that wasn't the right path
to choose.
So their walk of life will end
before forever, way before.
And this is what this
whole thing is telling us,
that this is the way we should
be to follow that covenant.
>>Indigos in the
native community
is very much a phenomenon.
But because of the history of
what the white people have done
with special Native
American children, generally
what happened was that if
a Native American child was
deemed as being
special, that child
was then taken away
from the parents
and then put in white schools.
So there are definitely Indigos
among the Native Americans.
>>The children of our culture,
as well as other children
in the world, are
very important to us
because I see a lot of the
children that are very smart,
and the children are wanting
attention, they want to learn.
And the children
all over the world
are teaching our generation
and the generation
before me the importance
of why they are here.
And we need to listen
to the children.
>>If we don't
begin to heal there
is not going to be no
future for our children.
It is something that
has been foretold
to us by our
ancestors, our elders,
that if we don't
wake up and start
to work among ourselves
in a harmonious way
that our life as Hopi
will cease to exist.
And therefore, our philosophy
that what we do here
on Hopi for all mankind, for
all human beings, for all living
things, will cease
to exist also.
But it's all of us,
not only as parents,
but people throughout the
world coming together,
unifying, and
bonding together will
make us become balanced again.
>>We are all human, and we are
all very important, especially
to mother earth.
Masauwu is our creator, and
that's who we have, to respect.
And if we don't it will turn
around and probably discipline
us.
And the reason why
I say that, you
look at all these hurricanes,
earthquakes, especially
in the United States.
Again, my grandfather told me
that if we misuse our mother
earth, if we get greedy
using mother earth, then
our creator will
come back to try
to remind us to not be
greedy of our land, water,
whatever it may be.
>>You know, in our
Hopi culture, prophecy
says that we're going to live
in what they call koyaanisqatsi,
and that means a crazy
world, or craziness.
>>And right now, the
world is so out of balance
that it is very hard,
as a parent myself,
to try to instill
that within my kids
because, right here on Hopi,
we're so out of balance
ourselves.
It's a sickness that we
need to wake up from.
>>I know that
people say that when
you're trying to teach
kids, [SPEAKING HOPI].
They say that statement
that means oh well.
But we can't say,
oh well, you know,
because there is still hope.
We can change it.
We have to change it as
a people, as a whole.
The people need to
come back to how
we are supposed to be as Hopis.
And that's what I see.
I know that the kids
really do want that.
The really do want to know
who they are as Hopi kids.
>>When we're guiding them to
be the leaders of tomorrow
we need to give them the truth.
We cannot make stories about
what their life should be,
but give them everything.
Give them the truth.
The prophecies tell us that we
need to look at our children
because they will be the
future leaders of our groups,
our tribes, our communities.
And we need to give them
up so that they will--
we need to guide them through
they're younger lives,
give them the best
advice we can give them,
so that they in turn,
when it's their time,
can be our leaders
in the future.
>>It can be done.
And we must work
towards that goal.
>>The children that
are coming in today
seem to have more software
already downloaded
into their systems.
They are an evolutionary leap.
They are showing us where
we are going as a species.
And I believe that
these children come
in with more neural
pathways connected,
more abilities, abilities
that we all have
but we've lost
over the centuries.
>>Are we seeing
evolution happening?
I don't know.
But if you have any belief in
natural history and the Darwin
phenomenon then you have to say
that evolution has to happen,
it does happen.
We're just so used to
it happening so slowly
that we don't get to
really recognize it.
>>Those of us that made a
big investment in the culture
and tried to shift
consciousness,
we want the children
to be that way.
Want.
Because otherwise, our
actions aren't justified.
>>We are in the midst of
an unprecedented, huge
transformation in
human consciousness.
And this transformation
in human consciousness
is reshaping the
human experience.
It is reshaping it for
millions of individuals.
And within, in my opinion,
just a few generations
it will have
reshaped the entirety
of the human experience.
And so it is
creating children who
are being born with this
new expanded perception,
and it is expanding the
perception of those of us
who are already walking
up on this earth.
>>We're watching humans evolve.
Just like we've evolved to
now having opposable thumbs,
we're witnessing
the human species
evolve into becoming
a telepathic creature.
>>We can call it any
name we really want to,
but it is a phenomenon that
is real, it is happening,
and I really believe that is
because technology and science
are changing very fast.
>>We are pioneers
of a new humanity.
That doesn't mean
that we're better,
or that we ever will be better.
It's impossible to be
better from the perception
of the universe.
You cannot be less valuable than
anyone else, or anything else,
and you cannot be more valuable.
All is precious.
>>They are our future,
and they're here
to simply help usher in a new
golden age where love will
triumph over fear, and awareness
will triumph over ignorance.
>>"Walking through
the poppy universe,
my fingers rattle
the hourglass aisles.
As the time sings in
a crossroad of hope
I'm a brush painting for miles.
Every letter of the
names I sit on just
hangs on the family space tree.
Which knowledge
lock should I pick?
As providence
chisels a galaxy key.
Balancing myself
on just one finger,
at first I thought
that everything
was white from
universe to universe.
I jump alone just to find out.
I'm still a child."
>>The greater event is not the
appearance of Indigo children
but the birth of
an Indigo world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[MUSIC - "BLESSED ARE THE
PEACEMAKERS"]
>>My message, as an Indigo, as a
human being, as a child of God,
was probably said most
succinctly by Bill and Ted
in their excellent
adventure, and that
is, be excellent to each other.